[SDK-2612] Update PHP Quickstarts for SDK 8.0 Beta (#9778)
auth0/docs: articles/quickstart/webapp/php/01-login.md

contentType: tutorial
useCase: quickstart
github:

>   path: .

Reviewer: same comment about using folders

Author: See previous explanation 👍

Reviewer 2: @evansims I believe this change is what caused the issue reported in slack today.

---

<%= include('../_includes/_getting_started', { library: 'PHP', callback: 'http://127.0.0.1:3000/' }) %>

<%= include('../../../_includes/_logout_url', { returnTo: 'http://127.0.0.1:3000' }) %>

## Integrate your PHP application

Let's create a sample application that authenticates a user with a PHP application. We'll take a simple approach here, appropriate for the written format. Still, you should check out the accompanying [Quickstart app on GitHub](https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-php-web-app/) for a more robust example.

### Installing the PHP SDK

${snippet(meta.snippets.install)}

> ### Installing HTTP Client and Messaging Factories

Reviewer: all these paragraphs seem a copy of the ones from the other article. Should they be extracted to a snippet as well?

The Auth0 PHP SDK supports many [PHP-FIG](https://www.php-fig.org) standards offering interoperability options with your architecture. Two of particular importance are [PSR-17](https://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-17/) and [PSR-18](https://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-18/). These standards allow you to plug-in networking components of your choice to handle messaging and requests. You will need to install compatible libraries in your project for the SDK to use.

The most prolific networking library for PHP is [Guzzle](https://guzzlephp.org), although many are available to pick from within the PHP community. Let's use Guzzle for this sample application. Once again, from your project directory, run the following shell command:

```sh
composer require guzzlehttp/guzzle guzzlehttp/psr7 http-interop/http-factory-guzzle
```

> ### Configuring the SDK

Reviewer: this section also seems repeated from the other article

```PHP
// 👆 We're continuing from the steps above. Append this to your index.php file.

define('ROUTE_URL_INDEX', rtrim($_ENV['AUTH0_BASE_URL'], '/'));
define('ROUTE_URL_LOGIN', ROUTE_URL_INDEX . '/login');
define('ROUTE_URL_CALLBACK', ROUTE_URL_INDEX . '/callback');
define('ROUTE_URL_LOGOUT', ROUTE_URL_INDEX . '/logout');
```

Now we can move on to adding our application's route handling logic, and the SDK integrations:

### Checking for a session

The Auth0 PHP SDK has a convenient method for checking if our user has authenticated and returned their profile, `getCredentials()`. Let's install this on our index route to print the user profile if they're logged in or report that they need to login.

```PHP
// 👆 We're continuing from the steps above. Append this to your index.php file.

function onIndexRoute() {
  $session = $auth0->getCredentials();

  if ($session === null) {
    // The user isn't logged in.
    echo 'Please <a href="/login">log in</a>.</p>';
    return;
  }

  // The user is logged in.
  print_r($session->user);

  echo 'You can now <a href="/logout">log out</a>.</p>';
}
```

> We can access all the properties of our user's profile from the `user` property response, which is an array. So, for example, we can pull the user's nickname using `$session->user['nickname']`, or their email address from `$session->user['email']`. The structure is a [normalized user profile](https://auth0.com/docs/users/user-profile-structure), which you can learn more about [here](https://auth0.com/docs/users/normalized-user-profiles).

Reviewer: I know `nickname` it's an open id profile property, but I'm not sure if it's often populated. Consider using a different one, like `given_name` or just `name`.

Also, bear in mind that `email` will only be available if the scope included "email" in it.

It's important to note that the content of the user profile will vary depending on the social provider(s) you use, so you should never assume that a particular value will always be there within your application logic. Use PHP language constructs like `isset` or null coalescence to gracefully handle a value's presence, or lack thereof, for example:

```PHP
// ✋ We don't need to include this in our sample application, it's just an example.

> $name = $session->user['name'] ?? $session->user['nickname'] ?? $session->user['email'] ?? 'Unknown';

Reviewer: 👍

```

### Logging in

Now let's create our /login route, which will use the Auth0 PHP SDK's `login()` method to setup the user session and return a customized URL to Auth0's Universal Login Page for this user to login.

```PHP
// 👆 We're continuing from the steps above. Append this to your index.php file.

function onLoginRoute() {
    // It's a good idea to reset user sessions each time they go to login to avoid "invalid state" errors, should they hit network issues or other problems that interrupt a previous login process:
    $auth0->clear();

>     // Setup the user's session and generate a ULP URL:

Reviewer: I suggest we avoid these acronyms, as we haven't introduced them above in the article and devs might get confused.

```suggestion
    // Setup the user's session and generate a Universal Login Page URL:
```

    $loginUrl = $auth0->login(ROUTE_URL_CALLBACK);

    // Finally, redirect the user to the Auth0 Universal Login Page.
    header("Location: " . $loginUrl);
    exit;
}
```

### Handling authentication callback

After our users return from authenticating with the Auth0's Universal Login Page, they'll return to our sample application at our callback route, `/callback` which we'll handle in this step.

When Auth0 passes our users back to us, it includes a few essential parameters in the query of the HTTP request. The Auth0 PHP SDK's `exchange()` method handles working with those, so finishing our authentication flow is straightforward:

```PHP
// 👆 We're continuing from the steps above. Append this to your index.php file.

function onCallbackRoute() {
    // Have the SDK complete the authentication flow:
    $auth0->exchange(ROUTE_URL_CALLBACK);

>     // Finally, redirect our end user back to the / index route, to display their user profile:

Reviewer: Should this be /index or are you separating it on purpose? The paragraph in the section below has the same typo at the end.
```suggestion
    // Finally, redirect our end-user back to the /index route, to display their user profile:
```

Author: I've updated the phrasing there a little to clarify

    header("Location: " . ROUTE_URL_INDEX);
    exit;
}
```

### Logging out

Last but not least, let's properly handle logging our users out. The `logout()` method of the Auth0 PHP SDK handles clearing our sample application's session cookies, redirecting the user to Auth0's [/logout endpoint](https://auth0.com/docs/logout) (which logs out Auth0 session layer and any identify provider session layers), and then return the user to our / index route.

```PHP
// 👆 We're continuing from the steps above. Append this to your index.php file.

function onLogoutRoute() {

>     // Setup the user's session and generate a ULP URL:

Reviewer: I suggest we avoid these acronyms, as we haven't introduced them above in the article and devs might get confused.

```suggestion
    // Setup the user's session and generate a Universal Login Page URL:
```
